Project Gutenberg's The Witch-Maid and other verses, by Dorothea Mackellar

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Witch-Maid and other verses

Author: Dorothea Mackellar

Release Date: February 1, 2019 [EBook #58803]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WITCH-MAID AND OTHER VERSES ***




Produced by Chuck Greif, MWS and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









                                  THE

                              WITCH-MAID

                                   &

                             OTHER VERSES




                            THE WITCH-MAID

                                   &

                             OTHER VERSES


                          DOROTHEA MACKELLAR


                                 1914
                          LONDON AND TORONTO
                        J. M. DENT & SONS LTD.
                    NEW YORK: E. P. DUTTON _&_ CO.




                            ACKNOWLEDGMENT


About a third of these poems have appeared before in a volume published
in Australia; several in _The Spectator_ and _The Sydney Bulletin_,
and a few elsewhere. I have to thank the editors for permission to
reprint.




                               CONTENTS


                                                                    PAGE

THE WITCH-MAID                                                         9

THE COLOURS OF LIGHT                                                  14

FROM A TOWN WINDOW                                                    17

THE SANTA MARIA                                                       19

“SUMER IS ICUMEN IN”                                                  21

NIGHT ON THE PLAINS                                                   24

SETTLERS                                                              25

MY COUNTRY                                                            29

SWALLOWS                                                              32

FIRE                                                                  34

HIGH PLACES                                                           35

THE CLOSED DOOR                                                       37

REMINDER                                                              40

CULGAI PADDOCK                                                        41

CANTICLE                                                              43

MARCH WINDS                                                           46

COLOUR                                                                47

NON PENSO A LEI                                                       50

THE ROAD TO RONDA                                                     52

THE MOON AND THE MORNING                                              54

FLOWER AND THORN                                                      56

THE GREY LAKE                                                         58

BURNING OFF                                                           61

AN OLD SONG                                                           63

BAZAR                                                                 64

SPRING ON THE PLAINS                                                  66

PILGRIM SONG                                                          68

THE COORONG SANDHILLS                                                 69

TWO JAPANESE SONGS:

   I. The Heart of a Bird                                             71

  II. A Smoke Song                                                    72

AN AFTERGLOW ON THE NILE                                              73

THE EXPLORER                                                          75

SEPTEMBER                                                             77

RIDING RHYME                                                          80

FOUR TRANSLATIONS FROM THE GERMAN                                     82

CHÂTEAU D’ESPAGNE                                                     86

BATHING RHYME                                                         88

MONTORO’S SONG                                                        93

SEA-FOG                                                               95

SORROW                                                                96

SEAGULL                                                               97




                            THE WITCH-MAID

                           AND OTHER VERSES




         THE WITCH-MAID


    I wandered in the woodland a morning in the spring,
    I found a glade I had not known, and saw an evil thing.

    I heard a wood-dove calling, as one that loves and grieves,
    The sun was shining silver on the small bright leaves,
    O it was very beautiful, the glade that I had found!
    I peeped between the slender stems, and there upon the ground
    A man was lying dead, and from the spear-wound in his side
    The sluggish blood had ceased to flow, and yet had hardly dried.

              _O the shining of the leaves,
              The morning of the year!
    O how could any die to-day, with life so young and dear?_

    My feet were tied with horror, I could not turn to run;
    A light breeze tossed the branches, the shadow and the sun
    Across the dead face shifted--it seemed to change and twitch--
    When from the trees beyond me stepped a white young witch.

    I prayed that I was hidden, she never turned her head,
    But picked her footsteps daintily and stooped beside the dead;
    She touched him with her hanging hair and stroked him with her hand,
    Still gazing like a little child that does not understand,
    For she had strayed from Elfland where death has never come,
    She knew not why his side was torn nor why his mouth was dumb.

    She sat her down beside him and joined her finger-tips
    And smiled a strange and secret smile that curved her thin red lips;
    She wore a veil of purple about her body sweet
    And little silver sandals on her smooth pale feet;
    Her black hair hung as straight as rain and touched the dead man’s eyes,
    He smiled at her in answer, a scornful smile and wise.

    She played with him awhile as might a panther-kitten play,
    Most horrible it was, and yet I could not look away--
    I needs must watch her motions, her cruel, supple grace,
    The delicate swift changes of her sharp-cut face;
    Till suddenly she wearied, and rising from her knees
    All in one lovely movement like a sapling in the breeze,
    She gazed on him who would not play, with gathering surprise--
    The man she did not understand, though she was very wise--
    She drew her veil around her, her whiteness showing through,
    And gazed; and still unceasingly there came the wood-dove’s coo.

              _O the stirring of the spring,
              The calling of the dove!
    Why does he lie so cold, so cold, when I am here to love?_

    Her long strange eyes were narrowed to threads of shining green,
    She touched the broken spear-point the wound’s red lips between,
    She touched it with her careless foot, and yet he did not stir,
    Dull fool that lay with open eyes and would not look at her!

    She turned away in anger and raised her arms on high,
    Her straight white arms that questioned the pure pale sky,
    The thousand slender tree-stems soon hid the way she went
    As they who hold a secret and therewith are content.
    The dead man smiled in silence; a strange thought in me said,
    _If I had heard her speak at all then I too should be dead:
    Her voice--what would her voice be?_--and then I fled, afraid,
    The spell was loosed that bound me to the evil glade.

              _O the flowers in the grass,
              The wood-dove in the tree;
    From magic and from sudden death, Good Lord deliver me!_




         THE COLOURS OF LIGHT


    This is not easy to understand
    For you that come from a distant land
    Where all the colours are low in pitch--
    Deep purples, emeralds deep and rich,
    Where autumn’s flaming and summer’s green--
    Here is a beauty you have not seen.

    All is pitched in a higher key,
    Lilac, topaz, and ivory,
    Palest jade-green and pale clear blue
    Like aquamarines that the sun shines through,
    Golds and silvers, we have at will--
    Silver and gold on each plain and hill,
    Silver-green of the myall leaves,
    Tawny gold of the garnered sheaves,
    Silver rivers that silent slide,
    Golden sands by the water-side,
    Golden wattle, and golden broom,
    Silver stars of the rosewood bloom;
    Amber sunshine, and smoke-blue shade:
    Opal colours that glow and fade;
    On the gold of the upland grass
    Blue cloud-shadows that swiftly pass;
    Wood-smoke blown in an azure mist;
    Hills of tenuous amethyst....

    Oft the colours are pitched so high
    The deepest note is the cobalt sky;
    We have to wait till the sunset comes
    For shades that feel like the beat of drums
    Or like organ notes in their rise and fall--
    Purple and orange and cardinal,
    Or the peacock-green that turns soft and slow
    To peacock-blue as the great stars show....

    Sugar-gum boles flushed to peach-blow pink;
    Blue-gums, tall at the clearing’s brink;
    Ivory pillars, their smooth fine slope
    Dappled with delicate heliotrope;
    Grey of the twisted mulga-roots;
    Golden-bronze of the budding shoots;
    Tints of the lichens that cling and spread,
    Nile-green, primrose, and palest red....

    Sheen of the bronze-wing; blue of the crane;
    Fawn and pearl of the lyrebird’s train;
    Cream of the plover; grey of the dove--
    These are the hues of the land I love.

    AUSTRALIA.




         FROM A TOWN WINDOW


    From my high-jutting window in town
          Looking down,
    The lights constellated burn steady and far;
    The purple skies meet with the dark at my feet,
    I hardly can tell which is lamp and which star.

    And the tall sombre buildings that rise
          Near my eyes
    Where one lighted window shines gold in the dark,
    Unsubstantial show, that I see them as though
    I could walk through the walls without leaving a mark.

    And the purring and murmurous choir
          Of the wire
    That leads the chained lightning a slave through the street,
    In the night-stillness comes like the throbbing of drums,
    Like the distant, dread sound of innumerable feet.

    SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.




         THE SANTA MARIA


    Three green miles beneath the sea
    Lies the spoil we could not hold,
    Lies the galleon with her gold.
    Fish brush by her weed-hung side;
    Never wave can shake her, she
    Has gone through them far too deep,
    And her crew may rest asleep
    In the places where they died.

    There each man unheeding lies
    As he was the night she sank;
    Even the cups from which they drank,
    Even the dice which they had cast
    --For we took them by surprise--
    Lie beside their long white bones;
    Flagons set with precious stones
    Count for little at the last.

    When she sank there in our sight
    With a little lapping sound,
    Slight as if a skiff had drowned,
    Staggering we turned to go,
    For our ship had felt the fight;
    Out to sunset showed our wake,
    Writhing like a wounded snake,
    Till we came to Samballo....

    Shapeless sea-beasts coil and creep
    On her rotting cedar deck,
    Past her crew who little reck
    Of the trespass, if they know.
    Mary, give them happy sleep!
    Surely there beneath the wave
    They have found as green a grave
    As the sun-warmed earth can show.




“SUMER IS ICUMEN IN”


    The beautiful old simple songs
      That make us laugh and cry,
    That sing of dying loveliness
      In words that cannot die:

    Of how the singer’s love was sweet
      Or how she was unkind,
    And how her lips were red that now
      Are dust upon the wind:

    Of how the fields were gold in May
      With daffodils a-row,
    And all the birds made holiday
      Six hundred years ago:--

    These, when the beauty of the spring
      Clad in this alien dress
    Turns like a sharp sword in our hearts
      For utter loveliness,

    And joy and sorrow intermixed
      Run tingling through our veins--
    These bring more peace and comfort still
      Than newer, subtler strains.

    Oh, quarrion for missel-thrush
      And rosewood bloom for may!
    The things the nameless singer saw
      Are what we see to-day.

    The grass is just as green to-day,
      The distant hill as blue,
    The birds are just as glad as then,
      The lovers just as true;

    And Alisoun is dead long syne
      With him that called her fair,
    But love is just as sweet and fresh
      When spring is in the air;

    And though I must perforce be dumb
      Who have no skill to sing,
    I am as deep in love, in love,
      As is the year in spring!

    AUSTRALIA.




         NIGHT ON THE PLAINS


    Out on the plain-land at night
      There is no sound, not a sigh,
    And nothing is moving now
      But scornful stars in the sky:

    The night is too great for my heart,
      It flutters and halts and trips;
    The terrible mirth of the stars
      Has slain my song on my lips.

    AUSTRALIA.




         SETTLERS


    If the gods of Hellas do not tread our shaggy mountains,
    Stately, white-and-golden, with unfathomable eyes,
    Yet the lesser spirits haunt our forests and our fountains,
    Seas and green-brown river-pools no thirsty summer dries.

    Never through the tangled scrub we see Diana glisten,
    Silver-limbed and crescent-crowned and swift to hear and turn,
    When the chase is hottest and the woods are waked to listen,
    While her maidens follow running knee-deep in the fern.

    Of the great gods only Pan walks hourly here--Pan only,
    In the warm dark gullies, in the thin clear upland air,
    On the windy sea-cliffs and the plains apart and lonely,
    By the tingling silence you may know that he is there.

    But the sea-nymphs make our shores shine gay with light and laughter,
    At the sunset when the waves are mingled milk and fire
    You may see them very plain, and in the darkness after
    You may hear them singing with the stars’ great golden choir.

    When the earth is mad with song some blue September morning,
    In the grove of myall trees that rustle green and grey,
    Through the plumes of trailing leaves hung meet for her adorning,
    See a dark-browed Dryad peep and swiftly draw away.

    In the deep-cut river beds set thick with moss-grown boulders
    Where the wagtails come to drink and balance lest they fall,
    You may see the gleaming of a Naiad’s slippery shoulders,
    And the water sliding cool and quiet over all.

    Through the narrow gorges where the flying-foxes muster,
    Hanging from the kurrajongs like monstrous magic grapes,
    Something spreads a sudden fear that breaks each heavy cluster--
    See the furry prick-eared faun that chuckles and escapes!

    Marble-smooth and marble-pale the blue gums guard the clearing
    Where the winter fern is gold among the silver grass,
    And the shy bush creatures watching bright-eyed and unfearing
    See the slender Oreads while we unheeding pass.

    Wreathed with starry clematis these tread the grassy spaces
    When the moon sails up beyond the highest screening tree,
    All the forest dances, and the furthest hidden places
    Are astir with beauty--but we may not often see.

    When came they to harbour here, the shy folk peering, flying?
    Long before our coast showed blue to Poncé de León
    Pan beheld a vision of an empty kingdom lying
    Waiting--and he led them past the seas to claim his own.

    AUSTRALIA.




         MY COUNTRY


    The love of field and coppice,
      Of green and shaded lanes,
    Of ordered woods and gardens
      Is running in your veins;
    Strong love of grey-blue distance,
      Brown streams and soft, dim skies--
    I know but cannot share it,
      My love is otherwise.

    I love a sunburnt country,
      A land of sweeping plains,
    Of ragged mountain ranges,
      Of droughts and flooding rains;
    I love her far horizons,
      I love her jewel-sea,
    Her beauty and her terror--
      The wide brown land for me!

    The tragic ring-barked forests
      Stark white beneath the moon,
    The sapphire-misted mountains,
      The hot gold hush of noon.
    Green tangle of the brushes
      Where lithe lianas coil,
    And orchids deck the tree tops
      And ferns the crimson soil.

    Core of my heart, my country!
      Her pitiless blue sky,
    When sick at heart, around us
      We see the cattle die--
    But then the grey clouds gather
      And we can bless again
    The drumming of an army,
      The steady, soaking rain.

    Core of my heart, my country!
      Land of the Rainbow Gold,
    For flood and fire and famine
      She pays us back threefold
    Over the thirsty paddocks,
      Watch, after many days,
    The filmy veil of greenness
      That thickens as we gaze.

    An opal-hearted country,
      A wilful, lavish land--
    All you who have not loved her,
      You will not understand--
    Though earth holds many splendours,
      Wherever I may die,
    I know to what brown country
      My homing thoughts will fly.

    AUSTRALIA.




         SWALLOWS


    What tells the swallows that a house is in the making,
    Far away from any town, among the whispering leaves?
    Saying, “Good news, a home! Fly there when spring is waking,
    There’ll be room for many nests beneath those shady eaves.”

    With the first springtime come the swallows without number,
    Chattering in the greying dawn, and like a flying cloud
    Sweeping round the roof at dusk before they sink to slumber--
    How did they scent the new-built home from out the city’s crowd?

    Was it a wild bush-bird that brought the message townwards?
    No, she would not leave the lonely gully where she sings.
    Maybe the swans’ black vanguard told it, crying downwards,
    Or vagrant winds blew past and caught its new smoke on their wings.

    Whoso the message brought, they knew, O do not doubt it,
    Swift they flew by plain and ridge, like arrows straight and sure
    Aimed for the home, to build their little homes about it,
    That shall stand while stands the roof and while the walls endure.

    AUSTRALIA.




         FIRE


    This life that we call our own
    Is neither strong nor free:
    A flame in the wind of death
    It trembles ceaselessly.

    And this is all we can do--
    To use our little light
    Before, in the piercing wind,
    It flickers into night.

    To yield the heat of the flame,
    To grudge not, but to give
    Whatever we have of strength
    That one more flame may live.




         HIGH PLACES


    My heart turns to the mountains
    That I so long have missed,
    The blue hills on the sky-line,
    Bird-haunted, sunshine-kissed;
    For in my soul I see them,
    The gullies golden-green
    Where from the hop-vine tangle
    The bellbird chimes unseen.

    And higher yet and higher
    I want to climb, until
    The trees give place to bushes
    Wind-shorn and struggling still
    For foothold on the corries
    Steep-sloping to the sky,
    I want to reach the summit
    And watch the clouds race by;--

    The clouds that go so quickly
    The whole hill seems to lean;--
    I want to breathe in deeply
    The cool air, thin and keen.
    My heart turns to high places
    All men have long adored--
    The proud and lonely mountains,
    The Altars of the Lord.

    AUSTRALIA.




         THE CLOSED DOOR


    As we crossed Alcántara
    With the Tagus falling,
    I was ’ware there came a voice
    At my shoulder calling.
    As we climbed the steep red path--
    Red as smouldering ember--
    “You, you know this well,” it said,
    “_Do you not remember?_”

    Up the narrow cobbled streets
    Still it followed after,
    Whispering deeds that we had shared
    With a fierce low laughter.
    “Here you stabbed him and he fell
    With his sword a-clatter--
    Life for life--you paid your debt--
    That was no great matter.”

    Through the Gate that Wamba built
    Still the voice pursuing
    Softly called, “We know it all,
    All that you are doing.
    Every stone you’re treading now
    You have known aforetime,
    You have seen these grim red walls
    In the stress of wartime.

    “You remember? Down this lane
    You would often swagger
    With your comrades of the mask,
    Cloak and sword and dagger.
    At that window high she stood,
    Some dear dead Dolores....
    You’ve forgotten--and so soon?
    --There are other stories....”

    By the white Church of the Kings,
    By the proud red towers,
    Thronging round about me came
    Ghosts of long-dead hours;
    Ghosts of many a blazing June,
    Many a keen December--
    “Thus and thus and thus we did.
    _Do you not remember?_”

    TOLEDO, SPAIN.




         REMINDER


    It’s I was sad at parting, but the red heart from my breast
    I left you as a token that I would not feast or rest
    Without a thought of you to kiss my lips before the wine,
    Without a dream of you to stoop and make my sleep divine.

    So lest you should forget one word of all the words we said,
    My heart, my only jewel, fired with living, pulsing red,
    A trinket at your girdle hangs, and as a sign to me
    The hungry, aching blank is, where my glad heart used to be.




         CULGAI PADDOCK


    I know that the tawny grass of the plain
      Is blown like the sea to-day
    By the wind that follows the autumn rain
      And chases the clouds away,

    And ruffles the winding lagoon, and now
      The sky’s blue, dewy and clean,
    Will show in the lee where the rushes bow
      Like shattered aquamarine.

    To-day, when the cranes in their grey and pink
      Fish solemnly in the weeds,
    To-day, when the cattle come down to drink
      And push through the whispering reeds,
    I stand there and watch them, in Culgai too,
      And they do not heed or fear;
    There is not one lark in the radiant blue
      Whose carol I do not hear.

    This morning the wind on the grasses brown
      Blows tingling and sweet and rare;
    Now though my body must tarry in town
      Thank God that my soul is there!

    SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.




         CANTICLE


    For the honey-coloured moon, and the shining host of stars,
    And the sun’s great golden targe,
    And the luminous red leaves of the sapling gums in spring,
    And the fen-lake’s reed-grown marge:

    _May’st Thou who mad’st all things to be alive,
    Thou who hast given the Senses Five,
    Thou who hast portioned the Nights and Days,
    Thou who hast given us lips for praise,
            Be thanked, Lord God!_

    For the arrowy swift stream flowing silent in the shade
    With its twisting waters green,
    For the spray-dewed slender fern-fronds beside the cataract,
    The wet black rocks between:

    For the pine-tree like a church-spire, that grows upon the ridge,
    For the lizard at its foot
    That is quicker than a thought, yea, and greener than the moss
    Growing round the great tree’s root:

    For the ocean stretching dark to the clear horizon-line,
    For the one white distant sail,
    For the ripple and the crisp and the calmness of the bay
    With the tide-lines showing pale:

    For the bright-eyed life astir in the grave depths of the bush,
    For each glimpse of it we get;
    For the pattering of rain when the tree-frogs chant in choir
    And the glistening leaves are wet:

    For the sea of tossing horns when the round-up’s at an end,
    For the thousand hoofs unshod;
    For the blossoms and the bees and the floating butterflies
    We thank Thee, O Lord God!

    _May’st Thou who mad’st all things to be alive,
    Thou who hast given the Senses Five,
    Thou who hast portioned the Nights and Days,
    Thou who hast given us lips for praise,
            Be thanked, Lord God!_

    AUSTRALIA.




         MARCH WINDS


    Winds go streaming, shouting loud,
      At their play around the sky,
    And my soul is like a cloud
      Blown about with them on high.

    Like a hawk unhooded, she
      From my body broke away,
    Longing for the company
      Of the winds at holiday.

    So she scours the skiey plain,
      Wheeling, dipping in the blue--
    Hawk-soul, cloud-soul, turn again!
      What’s the lure to use for you?

    CAIRO.




         COLOUR


    The lovely things that I have watched unthinking,
            Unknowing, day by day,
    That their soft dyes had steeped my soul in colour
            That will not pass away:--

    Great saffron sunset clouds, and larkspur mountains,
            And fenceless miles of plain,
    And hillsides golden-green in that unearthly
            Clear shining after rain;

    And nights of blue and pearl; and long smooth beaches,
            Yellow as sunburnt wheat,
    Edged with a line of foam that creams and hisses,
            Enticing weary feet;
    And emeralds, and sunset-hearted opals,
            And Asian marble, veined
    With scarlet flame; and cool green jade, and moonstones,
            Misty and azure-stained;

    And almond trees in bloom, and oleanders,
            Or a wide purple sea
    Of plain-land gorgeous with a lovely poison--
            The evil Darling pea:--

    If I am tired I call on these to help me
            To dream--and dawn-lit skies,
    Lemon and pink, or faintest, coolest lilac,
            Float on my soothéd eyes.

    There is no night so black but you shine through it,
            There is no morn so drear,
    O Colour of the World, but I can find you,
            Most tender, pure, and clear.

    Thanks be to God who gave this gift of colour
            Which who shall seek shall find;
    Thanks be to God who gives me strength to hold it,
            Though I were stricken blind.

    AUSTRALIA.




         NON PENSO A LEI

       (_Canzone Ferrandini_)


    When I pass by below your window, singing,
    Never by any chance I think of you;
    And jealousy your hard heart may be wringing--
    I go that way because I’ve work to do.
    And if you think, beneath the gay voice throbbing,
    You hear the sound of one in sorrow sobbing--
    I sing thus since my mood is thus. Believe me,
    Madame, no hopeless love of you shall grieve me.

    If they have said that I look pale and worn,
    Time is at fault, not any woman’s scorn.
    If they have said I daily seek Death’s doors,
    What’s that to you? Am I a love of yours?

    _But if I see you smiling at Gigi that sweet way,
    Then I go to the galleys and you to churchyard clay._




         THE ROAD TO RONDA


    Along the road to Ronda
        Grow rosemary and thyme,
    And trails of periwinkle
        Among the brambles climb;
    But ’tis the broom the paths along
    That lifts the traveller’s heart to song.

    The broom its royal treasure
        Spills lavish, far and wide,
    No stone but has its banner
        Of cloth-of-gold beside,
    No weed but bears its nodding plume,
    Its careless bravery of bloom.

    The purple spears of lavender
        Smell sweet as charity,
    And amaryllis blossoms
        By grey-flowered rosemary;
    It’s worth a year of suffering
    To walk the Ronda road in spring.

    There grows a gallant army
        Of blossoms great and small
    Along the road to Ronda--
        The broom is lord of all.
    O fair and fair and wonder-fair,
    Spilt like the sunshine everywhere!

    RONDA, SPAIN.




         THE MOON AND THE MORNING


    The moon is riding high, the stars are shining
      But very palely, through the clear blue light;
    The plain is empty, and the circling mountains
      Rise cold and far through swathes of mist to-night.

    There is no wind astir, the serried rushes
      Stand straight as lances round the glassed lagoon;
    Within still waters grows a single lily,
      A great white flower of solitude, the moon.

    My shadow that seemed taller than the mountains
      Lies gathered at my feet, a pool of ink,
    And as I move towards the sombre reed-beds
      I watch it spill and trickle, spread and shrink.

    Here in the moon-blanched pasture wide and silent
      With no voice waking and no foot astir
    Save mine, the lovely sleeping night surrounds me
      And naught is real save the thought of her.

    And yet the plain will wake to green and golden
      Within a few still hours; a breath will pass
    Crisping the mirror-surface of the water;
      The larks will start up from the dewy grass;

    The proud far sky will smile and grow more kindly;
      The gauzy wisps of cloud that float in it--
    The small pale frightened clouds that cast no shadow
      Since they dim not the starshine as they flit--

    Will mass to eastward like a host with banners,
      Dawn’s dazzling banners streaming out unfurled
    Above the dayspring’s golden fountain welling
      Up from beneath the dark rim of the world.




         FLOWER AND THORN


    Black the storm-wind rides the sky, all the leaves are torn,
    Briers upon the common stand stripped to stick and thorn;
    Thorny is the brier, thorny is the brier,
    Mother Mary, keep me safe, give me my desire!

    Now the winter rains have gone, Heaven’s washed and clean,
    All the brooks are laughing sweet, all the trees are green;
    Leafy is the brier, leafy is the brier,
    Mother Mary in the sky, grant me my desire!

    Summer’s yellow on the land, throbbing warm and live,
    Hear her million voices hum like a lucky hive;
    Blossom of the brier, blossom of the brier,
    Mary in the summertime, give me my desire!

    All the talking winds are stilled in the autumn pause,
    Redder far than blood or fire blaze the hips and haws;
    Fruiting of the brier, fruiting of the brier--
    Mother Mary, must I die starved of my desire?




         THE GREY LAKE

       (_Lake Eyre, South Australia_)


    Far away to southward
      The grey lake lies,
    Thirty leagues of mud, bare
      To turquoise skies.

    Shallow, sluggish water,
      Warm--warm as blood;
    Not enough to cover
      The quaking mud.

    Hot winds drive the water
      In summer time
    Southward--and behind them
      There lies grey slime.

    Forty miles to westward,
      A hundred north,
    Wind-fiends hunt the water
      Back--back and forth.

    There are reed-grown islands
      The eye scarce sees,
    Grey ooze guarding grimly
      Their mysteries.

    Strange Things may survive there,
      What, who can tell?
    Monsters old--the lake-slime
      Can guard them well.

    No one knows those islands,--
      The gulls that fly
    May go near, but others
      Would surely die.

    For the wind-scourged water
      Would flee the ships,
    And the mud would open
      Her soft smooth lips.

    So the isles are sacred
      From alien tread,
    Since the slime can swallow
      And keep her dead.

    Who can know her secrets?
      The blue sky might--
    (Cloudless-hot in daytime,
      Star-gemmed at night).

    To and fro for ever
      The water swings,
    And the gulls fly over,
      For _they_ have wings.




         BURNING OFF


    They’re burning off at the Rampadells,
      The tawny flames uprise
    With greedy licking around the trees:
      The hot breath sears our eyes

    From cores already grown furnace-hot;
      The logs are well alight;
    We fling more wood where the flameless heart
      Is throbbing red and white.

    The fire bites deep in that beating heart,
      The creamy smoke-wreaths ooze
    From cracks and knot-holes along the trunk
      To melt in greys and blues.

        *       *       *       *       *

    The young horned moon has gone from the sky,
      And night has settled down;
    A red glare shows from the Rampadells,
      Grim as a burning town.

    Full seven fathoms above the rest
      A tree stands, great and old,
    A red-hot column whence fly the sparks,
      One ceaseless shower of gold.

    All hail the king of the fire before
      He sway and crack and crash
    To earth!--for surely to-morrow’s sun
      Will see him fine white ash.

    The king in his robe of falling stars
      No trace shall leave behind,
    And where he stood with his silent court
      The wheat shall bow to the wind.

    AUSTRALIA.




         AN OLD SONG


    The almond bloom is overpast, the apple blossoms blow.
    I never loved but one man, and I never told him so.

    My flowers will never come to fruit, but I have kept my pride--
    A little, cold, and lonely thing, and I have naught beside.

    The spring-wind caught my flowering dreams, they lightly blew away.
    I never had but one true love, and he died yesterday.




         BAZAR


    Dive in from the sunlight smiting like a falchion
      Underneath the awnings to the sudden shade,
    Saunter through the packed lane
                            Many-voiced, colourful,
      Rippling with the currents of the south and eastern trade.

    Here are Persian carpets, ivory, and peachbloom,
      Tints to fill the heart of any child of man;
    Here are copper rose-bowls,
                            Leopard-skins, emeralds,
      Scarlet slippers curly-toed and beads from Kordofan.

    Water-sellers pass with brazen saucers tinkling,
      Hajjis in the doorways tell their amber beads;
    Buy a lump of turquoise,
                            A scimitar, a neckerchief
      Worked with rose and saffron for a lovely lady’s needs?

    Here we pass the goldsmiths, copper-, brass-, and silversmiths,
      All a-clang and jingle, all a-glint and gleam;
    Here the silken webs hang,
                            Shimmering, delicate,
      Soft-hued as an afterglow and melting as a dream.

    Buy a little blue god brandishing a sceptre,
      Buy a dove with coral feet and pearly breast;
    Buy some ostrich-feathers,
                            Silver shawls, perfume-jars,
      Buy a stick of incense for the shrine that you love best.

    ASSUAN.




         SPRING ON THE PLAINS


    Spring has come to the plains,
    And, following close behind,
    Green of the welcome rains,
    And spice of the first warm wind;
    Beating of wings on high,
    For, overhead in the blue,
    Southward the brolgas fly,
    The cranes and pelicans too,
    Ibis, and proud black swan--
    And quivering cries float clear,
    After the birds are gone,
    Still lingering in the ear.

    Everywhere we pass
    The horses tread soft and deep;
    Clover and young green grass--
    Hark to the grazing sheep,
    Cropping steady and slow--
    A peaceful, satisfied sound;
    Thick on the paths we go
    Gold flowers are starring the ground.
    Spring! and the world’s astir,
    And everything gives praise,
    Singing the strength of her
    These lovely lengthening days.

    AUSTRALIA.




         PILGRIM SONG


    My feet are grey with the roadside dust,
      My hair is wet with the dew,
    My heart is flagging with weariness
      And faint with the want of you.

    You are as young as the breaking buds,
      You are as old as the sea;
    My soul burns white in the flame of you--
      Love, open your door to me!...

    I sought my love in the noontide heat,
      I sought in the bitter wind,
    And found her house--and the doors were shut,
      And the windows were barred and blind.




         THE COORONG SANDHILLS

       (_South Australia_)


    Over the Coorong sandhills only the wild duck fly,
    Naught is there but the knot-grass rank, and the sea, and the sky;
    Redder than cooling lava, slow heave the hills to the blue,
    Splendid, dazzling, and stainless, of sky and of ocean too.

    South to the frozen mountains faces the last red hill,
    Only the sea between them; almost as lone and still
    Shows the sand as the ice-peaks, but it has heat and light,
    Set against the aurora that shatters the polar night.

    If the sands have a language, healing it is and kind,
    Clean and strong like the sea-roar or the glad shout of the wind;
    If you but face them bravely, lost in a barren land,
    Never will they betray you, the sky and the sea and sand.

    Blue burns the sky above me, red the sand at my feet,
    Near and far on the sandhills shimmers the living heat;
    Hill after hill I conquer, changing yet still the same,
    Still flows the sand together and covers the way I came.

    Stretched in a warm sand-hollow late in the afternoon
    Watch I the wild duck flying back to the long lagoon;
    Black on an amber sunset passes the last of the flight--
    Over the Coorong sandhills quiver the pinions of night.




         TWO JAPANESE SONGS


                 I

         THE HEART OF A BIRD

    _What does the bird-seller know of the heart of a bird?_

    There was a bird in a cage of gold, a small red bird in a cage of gold;
    The sun shone through the bars of the cage, out of the wide heaven;
    The depths of the sky were soft and blue, greatly to be longed for.
    The bird sang for desire of the sky, and her feathers shone
        redder for sorrow;
    And many passed in the street below, and they said one to another:
    “Ah, that we had hearts as light as a bird’s!”

    _But what does the passer-by know of the heart of a bird?_

    _What does the bird-seller know of the heart of a bird?_

    “I have given grain for you to eat and water that you may bathe.”
    Shall not this bird be content? is there need to clip her wings?
    No, for her cage is very strong, the golden bars are set close;
    Yet the real bird has flown away, very far away over the rice-fields;
    There is only the shadow-body in the cage.

    _What does the bird-seller care for the heart of a bird?_


              II

         A SMOKE SONG

    There is a grey plume of smoke on the horizon,
    The smoke of a steamer that has departed over the edge of the world.
    There is the smoke of a dying fire in my heart,
    The smoke has hurt my eyes, they ache with tears.




         AN AFTERGLOW ON THE NILE


      Silver and misty rose
    And iris-flushed mother-of-pearl
      Is the world at the clear day’s close,
    River and sky and sand:
      Into a land we sail
    Soft-hued like the dreams of a girl,
      Vaguely outlined and bubble-frail--
    Into a mystic land.

      Speak, and the vision breaks,
    Yea, feel but too strongly, it flies
      From the tumult its beauty wakes
    Deep in our hearts’ stronghold;
      We can but stand and gaze,
    With all our souls’ life in our eyes,
      As we spin out this day of days
    Thin to a thread of gold.

       *       *       *       *       *

      Life has a flagon tall
    O’erbrimming with beauty’s clear wine,
      We only can sip at it all--
    If we could lay it by,
      Treasure it, hold it fast,
    And revel in colour divine
      When the grey days come past,
    Then we should never die.

      That is for gods alone,
    For beauty has butterfly wings,
      And we never can make it our own,
    Bloom unscattered, unless
      We are as gods, apart--
    And not one of these wonderful things
      May I ever set down, though my heart
    Break in its helplessness.




         THE EXPLORER


    Had I been Adam in Eden-glade
      _I_ should have climbed the wall
    Or ever the Woman found the fruit,
      Crimson and ripe to fall.

    For though the garden be Paradise,
      Gardens are little worth
    To one who thirsts for the wilderness
      Lonely in all the earth.

    So out of the garden greenery
      Heavy with jasmine scent
    And past the slumbering gentle beasts
      I would go forth content.

    I’d think of naught save the wall, but gain
      Over the other side
    A fair mixed world of evil and good,
      Chancy and wild and wide.

    Sorrow and hunger and pain and fear,
      Peace that is won through strife,
    The changing luck of the changing year
      Giving its zest to life.

    Had _I_ been Adam in Eden-close
      Never was wall so high
    ’Could keep me out of the lean brown earth,
      Though it might reach the sky!

    _Had I been Adam in Paradise
      I should ha’ climbed the wall,
    I want not only the sweet of life
      But all--all--all!_




         SEPTEMBER


    The morns are growing misty, the nights are turning cold,
    The linden leaves are falling like a shower of gold;
    _And over where my heart is, beneath the southern sun,
    The shearing’s nearly over and the spring’s begun_.

    _The crying flocks are driven to feed in peace again,
    They stream and spread and scatter on the smooth green plain,
    And in the sky above them the soft spring breezes keep
    A flock of clouds as snowy as the new-shorn sheep._

    Now later comes the sunshine and sooner comes the dark,
    The barefoot newsboys shiver, the ladies in the Park
    Wear furs about their shoulders, for autumn winds are keen,
    And rusty curling edges fleck the chestnuts’ green.

    The mists hang gauzy curtains of pearl and pigeon-blue
    Between us and the distance, the street-lamps shining through
    Wear each a golden halo diaphanous and fair--
    But not one whit more lovely than my own clear air.

    _More clear than you can dream it, as bright as diamond
    It bathes the plains and ridges and the hills beyond,
    It bathes the pillared woodlands that ring with bellbird notes,
    With mating calls and answers from a thousand throats._

    The lamps are lit in London, beneath their searching light
    The smiling anxious faces look strained and very white;
    _And over where my heart is, twelve thousand miles away,
    The dewy grass is glinting at the break of day_.

    LONDON.




         RIDING RHYME


    Mount, mount in the morning dew;
    A man loved me when the world was new.

    Ride, ride while the dawn is cool:
    I was angry and he was a fool.

    Ride, ride through the shadows grey:
    I told him to go and he went away.

    Ride, ride through the sun’s first gold;
    I go alone now the world is old.

    Ride, ride, for your horse is good;
    He never came to me or understood.

    Ride, ride, and you’ll travel far;
    I tore my heart out and hid the scar.

    Ride with a man at your bridle-rein--
    My man never will come again.

    Ride, ride, for the sun is strong:
    O but a lonely road can be long!

    Ride, ride, for the light grows dim:
    What of the others? I wanted him.

    Home, home, for the tale is told:
    I was young and now I am old.




         FOUR TRANSLATIONS FROM THE GERMAN


               I

       (_Writer unknown_)

      I heard a sickle sighing,
    Yea, sighing through the corn,
      I heard a maiden crying
    That was for love forlorn.

      “Give over, love, give over!
    I care not what may pass,
      For in the green, green clover
    I’ve found another lass.”

      “If in the green, green clover
    The while I stand apart
      You’ve found another lover
    I well may break my heart.”


           II

       (_Keller_)

    I was a master-weaver
      To weave my grief and care,
    And day and night I fashioned
      A heavy robe to wear.

    I trailed it on the highway
      Dust-grey, with weary pride,
    I set upon my forehead
      A wreath of thorns beside.

    The sun on high in Heaven
      Looked down and loud laughed he:
    “What little dwarf goes yonder
      In robes of majesty?”

    Ashamed I laid my mantle
      And crown upon the sod,
    And sorrowless and joyless
      The dusty road I plod.


          III

       (_Storm_)

    Out of my slumber I woke in affright;
    Why does the lark sing so deep in the night?

    The day is gone, the morning is far,
    Down on my pillow shines many a star;

    And ever the song of the lark I hear;
    Oh, voice of the dawning, I shrink in fear.


             IV

       (_Hofmannsthal_)

    She bore the beaker o’er to him--
    Her chin was rounded like its rim--
    So light and steady was her tread,
    Not one drop of the wine was shed.

    So light and sinewy his hand,
    He rode his young horse carelessly,
    And with an easy mastery
    He forced it to a quivering stand.

    And yet when from her hand the light
    Small beaker he must take, they found
    That it was all too hard, for lo,
    Both he and she did tremble so
    Their two hands never met aright,
    And dark wine trickled on the ground.




         CHÂTEAU D’ESPAGNE


    Castle-of-Spain is builded high,
    Thrusting its towers towards the sky,
    With its shot-windows looking down
    Over the ribbed roofs of the town
    That like a cat, her mousing done,
    Stretches at ease there in the sun.

    Castle-of-Spain upon the crest
    Thrones like an eagle come to rest;
    Shut wings ready to spread once more
    And great and still in the blue to soar:--
    On that day you will turn to find
    Your castle gone with no wrack behind!

    Castle-of-Spain is hard to take.
    Your feet will bleed and your heart may break
    Long ere that stony height you gain--
    Better the safe and pleasant plain!
    For, reach the summit, nothing’s there
    Save mocking sun and empty air
    Or a tall cloud-tower in the heaven’s span--
    Small comfort that to an earthly man!
    Castle-of-Spain is builded high
    Up above us, beyond the sky....

          _Easy we build you, hardly we gain,
          Castle-of-Spain, Castle-of-Spain!_

    SAN PABLO, ANDALUSIA.




         BATHING RHYME


    Turquoise-green the laughing sea
    And the beach is ivory,
    Creamy-yellow, creamy-smooth--
    How the small waves lisp and soothe!
    Those grave woods will not betray,
    All the shore is ours to-day,
    There’s no soul for many a mile
    And the curved waves call and smile,
    Coax and whisper and beguile ...
    Quick, your garments cast aside
    Go to meet the rising tide!

    Childlike run we hand in hand
    Down the slope of hard smooth sand,
    From the kissing sun’s embrace
    To the kissing waves that race
    Frothing rainbows round our feet--
    O the cool shock sharp and sweet!
    O the healing of the sea,
    Clearer than it seemed to be!
    Even clearer--lucent green
    Like the eyes of some sea queen.

    Looking through the water’s shimmer
    Can you see a moving glimmer
    Whiter than the rippled sand,
    White as snow--a beckoning hand?
    Dive, and lo! it swings from sight,
    Vanishing in broken light.
    She is gone, but memories stay
    And transfigure all the day;
    In the waves’ soft touch there lingers
    Something of her cool white fingers;
    Is that shell her gleaming throat,
    That dark weed, her hair afloat?...
    So her troubling beauty’s power
    Like the perfume of a flower
    Penetrates the sea and air
    Making everything more fair:
    Pleasure stabbing to the brain
    With the joy that touches pain.

    Of the water’s strength made free,
    We’re a part of all the sea;
    Close its clean caress enfolds,
    And each joy that motion holds
    Taste we--glad to be alive--
    Race the curling waves, or dive
    To green dusk, and meet the day
    Swift before has passed away
    All our crystal pathway thick
    With the bubbles rising quick;
    Or when that is done we lie
    Rocking, gazing at the sky,
    Blue and sweet and purely lit
    That we gasp to look on it....

    Looking through the sunshot deep,
    Where our sea-maid lies asleep,
    Throat upflung, as white as lime,
    With the clear waves keeping time
    To the heaving of her breast--
    Here we see to veil her rest
    Every jewel-tint of green:
    Jade, smaragdus, tourmaline,
    Beryl and green sapphire’s light,
    Streaky solid malachite,
    Chrysoprase and peacock-sheen
    Of the opal’s shifting green--
    Patched and barred with purple dye
    Where the rocks like watch-dogs lie,
    Waiting crouched beneath the wave,
    Hungry, cruel as the grave....

    Colour floods our souls until
    They must brim and overspill,
    Cups too small to bear away
    Half the beauty of the day.
    But when walking bound with heat
    Shackled in the airless street,
    When the sky has lost its light
    And o’er all the dust is white--
    We shall turn to dreams of this
    As a damned soul thinks of bliss,
    And the loveliness we fail
    Now to grasp shall count full tale.




     MONTORO’S SONG AGAINST COUNT ALVARO DE LUNA,
            HIGH CONSTABLE OF CASTILE

       (_From the Spanish of E. Marquina_)


    “King, a flock is feeding
    down the cliff unheeding
        and upon the hill,
    with your crook to shepherd it....”
    --It is yours, O Favourite.
        Ask for what you will.

    “In your crown a jewel
    blazes fierce and cruel--
        kingship to fulfil.
    Such a royal stone is it....”
    --It is yours, O Favourite.
        Ask for what you will.

    “King, see, your rejected
    sceptre lies neglected
        on the throne-steps still.
    Long you have forgotten it....”
    --It is yours, O Favourite.
        Ask for what you will.

    “King, in kingly measure
    I have spent my treasure,
        haste my stores to fill!
    Be my Envoy leal and fit--”
    --I shall do so, Favourite.
        Ask for what you will.

    “King, tell me I am dreaming;
    I see the tapers gleaming;
        a scaffold boding ill
    with the headsman swart by it--”
    --It is yours, O Favourite,
        ask for what you will.




         SEA-FOG


    Into the soft mist the fishing-boats go,
    As silent as moonlight, as silent as snow;
    Just where the pale sea melts into the sky,
    Silver-grey birds of the autumn, they fly
    Slowly and smoothly and statelily past
    Till their wide pinions are hidden at last.

    From the high rock whence I watch on the hill
    Down to the sea, all is muffled and still.
    Never a leaflet stirs soft overhead,
    Everything living is frozen or fled,
    Fled through the mist to more wonderful things....
    Am I the only soul left without wings?

    PENZANCE.




         SORROW


    My Sorrow, O my Sorrow, when first you came to rest
    Crouched huddling on my hearthstone, I held you to my breast
    And cuddled and caressed you, and rocked you o’er and o’er--
    My Sorrow like a baby that creeps upon the floor!

    I showed you to my neighbours, I made you rhymes to sing,
    For I was proud to own you, the delicate small thing;
    And so I nursed you always, till you are grown to-day,
    My Sorrow, like a tiger tense-crouching for his prey.

    Yea, silently and swiftly, my Sorrow, you have grown
    Till you are waxed so dreadful I dare not be alone--
    Alone I dare not face you, lest I be slain outright--
    I pray you, monster Sorrow, to sheathe your claws to-night!




         SEAGULL


    O that these words of mine,
      Leaden and dull,
    Shone as your feathers shine,
      Swift-racing gull;

    Sped like your arrow-flight,
      Flashing between
    All the wide heaven’s light
      And the waves’ green!

    Is it the wind’s caress
      Bears you along,
    Your white wings motionless,
      Delicate, strong?

    No, in a moment more
      Down the steep air
    You shoot and whirl and soar,
      Effortless there.

    Facing the wind you go,
      Splendid and free,
    Dark on the sky you show,
      White on the sea.

    Now to the waves you swoop,
      Snatch at your prey--
    Smoothly you pause and stoop,
      And are away,

    While the sea’s rage is spent
      Leaping at you,
    Who make high merriment
      Up in the blue.

    Then to her calming breast
      That pulses still
    You will come down to rest
      At your wild will.

    O for the shining word
      Swift as the light,
    Showing you, gladdest bird,
      Angel of flight!


         THE TEMPLE PRESS, PRINTERS, LETCHWORTH





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Witch-Maid and other verses, by 
Dorothea Mackellar

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WITCH-MAID AND OTHER VERSES ***

***** This file should be named 58803-0.txt or 58803-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/8/8/0/58803/

Produced by Chuck Greif, MWS and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
